# PyFR_compressible_blasius

Uses the method given by "A CFD Tutorial in Julia: Introduction to Compressible Laminar Boundary-Layer Flows" (Oz and Kara, 2021, DOI: 10.3390/fluids) for generating a compressible Blasius laminar boundary layer on a zero-pressure gradient flat plate. This code implements this method in MATLAB, and then extends it to convert the solution back into physical coordinates and calculate a wall-normal velocity profile by integrating the continuity equation. The code also generates fits in a format suitable for input to PyFR. Currently an 8-term Fourier series in combination with tanh functions to approximate a step are found to be effective for supersonic Mach, but at hypersonic Mach this fit performs less well. The code only generates profiles for an adiabatic wall condition, but the method in the above paper can be applied to a specified isothermal wall, and this may be implemented in future.

The "main" script takes user specified flow parameters and generates a boundary layer profile in streamwise velocity, wall normal velocity and density. It also calculates and outputs some boundary layer integral parameters, generates and outputs strings in a format suitable for PyFR, and generates some plots.

Finally a note on the quality of the fits (at reasonably low Mach e.g. 2). The streamwise velocity wall gradient is well captured, but a slight non-zero velocity is often imposed; this is usually "corrected" downstream by PyFR. The wall normal velocity profile fit also usually is slighly non-zero at the wall, and also often has a slight discrepancy in wall gradient (i.e. also slightly non-zero). Note also a non-zero wall normal velocity freestream is imposed. Finally, the density fit usually also imposes slight discrepancies in value and gradient at the wall. Future work may try to improve these fits, but for now as long as the inlet is a reasonable distance upstream of the region of interest the profile usually "corrects" itself quickly.
